[IMP] inventory: print shipping label (#8658)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping_receiving/advanced_operations_shipping/labels.rst

=====================
Print shipping labels
=====================

.. |DO| replace:: :abbr:`DO (Delivery Order)`

Integrate Odoo with :doc:`third-party shipping carriers
<../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>` to automatically generate shipping labels that
includes prices, destination addresses, tracking numbers, and barcodes.

Configuration
=============

To generate labels for a third-party shipping carrier, first :doc:`install the third party shipping

> connector <../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`. Then configure and activate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connector <../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`. Then, configure and activate the
```

delivery product <inventory/shipping_receiving/delivery-product>`. Finally, click
:guilabel:`Confirm` on the quotation, and click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button to access the
|DO|.

.. image:: labels/get-rate.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show "Get rate" pop-up window.

.. tip::
   For users who do not have the *Sales* app installed, the shipping carrier is specified in a
   delivery order's :guilabel:`Carrier` field of the :guilabel:`Additional Info` tab.

   .. image:: labels/additional-info-tab.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show the "Additional Info" tab of a delivery order.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/validate-print-label:

Validate delivery order
-----------------------

On a delivery order form, navigate to the :guilabel:`Additional Info` tab to ensure the third-party
shipping carrier has been added to the :guilabel:`Carrier` field.

.. important::
   If the *Sales* app is not installed, the third-party carrier is set in the :guilabel:`Carrier`
   field.

After the items in the order have been packed, click :guilabel:`Validate` to get the shipping
carrier's tracking number, and generate the shipping label.

.. note::

>    Create or select an existing delivery order by going to the :menuselection:`Inventory` app and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Create or select an existing delivery order by going to the :menuselection:`Inventory` app, and
```

=====================
Print shipping labels
=====================

.. |DO| replace:: :abbr:`DO (Delivery Order)`

Integrate Odoo with :doc:`third-party shipping carriers
<../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>` to automatically generate shipping labels that
includes prices, destination addresses, tracking numbers, and barcodes.

Configuration
=============

To generate labels for a third-party shipping carrier, install the shipping connector, configure and
activate the delivery method, and provide the company's :ref:`source address
<inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-source-address>` and :ref:`product weights

> <inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-weight>`.

Author: @odoo/us-doc-review, I wanted to get your opinion on how short to keep this Configuration section.

Technically, the configuration of this doc is the exact same as the third_party_shipper's (the PR that's supposed to be merged before this one). The only difference is that we set the "integration level" to "Get Rate and Create Shipment" in the delivery method section. 

I chose to keep the shipping connector installation part in this doc because it made sense, but it can be taken out. Should I keep the "Install shipping connector" section in the doc, or should I just link to the other doc?

I decided to not include the source address and product weights configuration in the doc, as this doc and the third_party_shipper one starts to become really similar. Instead, in the "Add shipping on quotation" section, I mention that the source address and product weights must be configured for the shipping connector to work properly. Do you think mentioning it there is enough? Would love to know your thoughts!

Reviewer 2: Hi @Felicious, this is a really good conversation to have– I like that you are trying to reduce writing duplicate information by leveraging the modular nature of docs. After looking at both this PR and #8634, I think that you can remove a lot of the same/similar content you have in this PR (#8658), here is my reasoning:

In the **Configuration** section of #8634, you already detail (with an important admonition) the **Integration Level** needed for generating shipping labels. I think this is a perfect use of an admonition and internal reference.

So for the **Configuration** section of this PR (#8658), I think you can get by with just stating something like the following, removing the **Install shipping connector**, **Delivery method**, and **Production environment** sections from this PR:
```
Configuration
=============

To generate labels for a third-party shipping carrier, first :doc:`install the third party shipping connector
<../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`. Then configure and activate the :ref:`delivery method
<inventory-shipping-receiving-configure-delivery-method>`, being sure to set the :guilabel:`Integration
Level` to :guilabel:`Get Rate and Create Shipment` to generate shipping labels. Finally, provide the
company's :ref:`source address <inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-source-address>` and
:ref:`product weights <inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-weight>`. 

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper`
```

Lastly, I think your important admonition in the **Add shipping on quotation** works well, and mentioning it there is enough IMO.

For detailed instructions and context on configuring these options, refer to :doc:`this document
<../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`.

Install shipping connector
--------------------------

Install the shipping connector's module in Odoo to integrate Odoo with the third-party shipping
carrier. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`.

> Under the :guilabel:`Shipping Connectors` heading, select the third-party shipping carrier's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the :guilabel:`Shipping Connectors` section, tick the third-party shipping carrier's
```

checkbox to install it. Multiple shipping connectors may be selected. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: ../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper/shipping-connectors.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options of available shipping connectors in Odoo.

Delivery method
---------------

Next, add the carrier details by going to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration -->
Shipping Methods`.

> On the :guilabel:`Shipping Methods` page, choose the desired delivery method. For details on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Shipping Methods` page, select the desired delivery method from the list. For details on
```

> configuring the third party shipping method, go to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuring the third-party shipping method, go to:
```

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Configure third-party carrier <../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`
   - :doc:`DHL credentials <../setup_configuration/dhl_credentials>`
   - :doc:`Sendcloud credentials <../setup_configuration/sendcloud_shipping>`
   - :doc:`UPS credentials <../setup_configuration/ups_credentials>`

Then, select the :guilabel:`Get Rate and Create Shipment` option in the :guilabel:`Integration

> Level` field to ensure the shipping label gets printed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Level` field to ensure shipping labels are printed.
```

.. image:: labels/integration-level.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Set the "Get Rate and Create Shipment" option.

Production environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the delivery method details configured, click the :guilabel:`Test Environment` smart button to

> set it to production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set it to :guilabel:`Production Environment`.
```

.. warning::

>    Setting the delivery method to :guilabel:`Production` creates **real** shipping labels, and users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Setting the delivery method to :guilabel:`Production Environment` creates **real** shipping labels, and users
```

>    are at risk for being charged through their carrier account (e.g., UPS, FedEx), **before** users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   are at risk for being charged through their carrier account (e.g. UPS, FedEx, etc.) **before** users
```

   charge customers for shipping. Verify all configurations are correct before launching the

>    delivery method to :guilabel:`Production`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   delivery method to :guilabel:`Production Environment`.
```
I am suggesting the addition of 'Environment' -- and adding capitalization -- because that's how it appears on the UI/screen

.. image:: ../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper/production.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show the "Test Environment" smart button.

Print tracking labels
=====================

> Tracking labels are generated after the delivery order (DO) is validated. Begin by creating a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tracking labels are generated after a delivery order (DO) is validated. Begin by creating a
```

> quotation, adding the shipping cost, confirming the sales order, and then validating the |DO|.

Reviewer: I genuinely appreciate the concise nature of this instruction, however, do you think a quick mention of where they can do this would be helpful? Like, "Open the :menuselection:`Sales app`, and proceed to..."

Or something like that? What do you think?

Author: I'm not sure if specifying how to make a quotation is necessary in this opening paragraph, as the "Add shipping on quotation" section goes into detail on how to do that (:

Add shipping on quotation
-------------------------

To generate a tracking label for an order, begin by creating a quotation in :menuselection:`Sales

> app --> Orders --> Quotations`. Then, click the :guilabel:`Add Shipping` button in the bottom-right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
app --> Orders --> Quotations`, clicking :guilabel:`New`, and filling out the quotation form. Then, click the :guilabel:`Add Shipping` button in the bottom-right
```

corner of the quotation.

.. image:: labels/add-shipping-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show the "Add Shipping" button on the quotation.

In the resulting pop-up window, select the intended carrier from the :guilabel:`Shipping Method`

> drop-down menu. Clicking :guilabel:`Get Rate` displays the shipping cost for the customer via the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
drop-down menu. Clicking :guilabel:`Get Rate` displays the shipping cost for the customer, via the
```

third-party carrier in the :guilabel:`Cost` field.

.. important::
   If clicking :guilabel:`Get Rate` results in an error, ensure the :ref:`warehouse's address
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-source-address>` and :ref:`weight of products in the
   order <inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-weight>` are properly configured.

Click :guilabel:`Add` to add the cost to the quotation, which is listed as the :ref:`configured
delivery product <inventory/shipping_receiving/delivery-product>`. Finally, click
:guilabel:`Confirm` on the quotation, and click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button to access the
|DO|.

.. image:: labels/get-rate.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show "Get rate" pop-up window.

.. tip::
   For users who do not have the *Sales* app installed, the shipping carrier is specified in a
   delivery order's :guilabel:`Carrier` field of the :guilabel:`Additional Info` tab.

   .. image:: labels/additional-info-tab.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show the "Additional Info" tab of a delivery order.

Validate delivery order
-----------------------

> On the delivery order, after the items in the order have been packed, click :guilabel:`Validate` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a delivery order form, after the items in the order have been packed, click :guilabel:`Validate` to
```

> get the shipping carrier's tracking number and generate the shipping label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get the shipping carrier's tracking number, and generate the shipping label.
```

   delivery method to :guilabel:`Production`.

.. image:: ../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper/production.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show the "Test Environment" smart button.

Product weight
--------------

For the carrier integration to work properly, specify the weight of products by going to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Products`, and selecting the desired product.

Then, switch to the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab, and define the :guilabel:`Weight` of the product.

.. image:: ../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper/product-weight.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Display the "Weight" field in the Inventory tab of the product form.

Print tracking labels
=====================

Add shipping on quotation
-------------------------

To generate a tracking label for an order, begin by creating a quotation in :menuselection:`Sales
app --> Orders --> Quotations`. Then, click the :guilabel:`Add Shipping` button in the bottom-right
corner.

.. image:: labels/add-shipping-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show the "Add Shipping" button on the quotation.

In the resulting pop-up window, select the intended carrier from the :guilabel:`Shipping Method`

> drop-down menu. After clicking :guilabel:`Get Rate`, the :guilabel:`Cost` of shipping the customer

Author: For! Thanks for pointing out the distinction

> drop-down menu. After clicking :guilabel:`Get Rate`, the :guilabel:`Cost` of shipping the customer
> through the third-party shipping carrier is displayed in the :guilabel:`Cost` field.

Author: ```suggestion
drop-down menu. Clicking :guilabel:`Get Rate` displays the shipping :guilabel:`Cost` for the customer
via the third-party carrier in the :guilabel:`Cost` field.
```
